Master's in Applied Data Science | DSI
Source: https://datascience.uchicago.edu/education/masters-programs/ms-in-applied-data-science/

Skip to main content

About
About the Data Science Institute
The Data Science Institute (DSI) executes the University of Chicago’s bold, innovative vision of Data Science as a new discipline.

Jobs & Opportunities
Open faculty, postdoctoral, staff, and student roles with the UChicago Data Science Institute and our partners.

Visiting DSI @ UChicago
Contact

Education
Academic Programs

Undergraduate Data Science Major
A curriculum combining computational and analytical skills, domain knowledge, communication skills, and ethics.

Master's Programs
Degree-granting programs in computational analysis and public policy and applied data science.

PhD Program
Combining training in mathematical foundations of data science, responsible data use, and advanced computational methods.

Other Programs

Data Science Clinic
An experiential project-based course where students work in teams with real-world clients from industry, academia, and social impact organizations.

Summer Research Programs
Summer research opportunities for undergraduate students in an immersive, interdisciplinary environment.

Preceptors in Data Science
A partnership between the University of Chicago and City Colleges of Chicago to train the next generation of data science educators.

Research
Initiatives

AI + Science
A new paradigm of transformational AI-enabled scientific discovery across the physical and biological sciences.

Data & Democracy
Protecting democracy in the digital age through cross-disciplinary research and convening key stakeholders.

AICE: AI for Climate
Inter-discplinary integration of AI with fundamental domain knowledge to accelerate and transform climate research with a focus on both scientific advances and societal impacts.

Data Ecology
The goal of data ecology is to study dataflows and design interventions to control how data impacts our world.

Novel Intelligence
Exploring how to train AI models that augment rather than mimic human capacity.

Programs

Outlier Research & Evaluation
A team committed to bringing equity to education with a focus on learners of all ages from groups historically underrepresented in STEM.

Open Spatial Lab
Creating open source tools and analyses to solve problems using geospatial data science.

Data Science Software Development Core
Providing software development and data science services across the University.

Seed Funding Projects
Early-stage, interdisciplinary research funded and supported by the Data Science Institute.

Funding Opportunities
Open calls for funding for early-stage, transformative data science research.

Postdoctoral Programs
Unique opportunities for early-career scientists who wish to advance cutting-edge data science approaches, methods, and applications in research.

Past Initiatives
Internet Innovation
Measuring and analyzing Internet performance and reliability to address inequity in U.S. communities.

Partnerships

Industry Partnerships
Connecting industry partners to groundbreaking data science research, emerging technologies, and talent acquisition opportunities at UChicago.

11th Hour Project Software and Data Hub
Software and data science for grantees of the 11th Hour Project, which serves nonprofits in energy, food and agriculture, human rights, and marine technology.

Community Data Fellows
Pairing students with local community organizations to leverage data and technology in service of their mission.

Data Science for Social Impact Network
A consortium of diverse higher education partners to broaden STEM participation and amplify social impact through data science.

Data4All High School Workshop
A program introducing Chicago high schoolers to data science and inspiring them to consider career pathways in data science and AI.

AI+Science Summer School
The goal of this yearly program is to introduce a new generation of diverse interdisciplinary graduate students and researchers to the emerging field of AI+Science.

People
Faculty, Leadership, & Staff
Research Advisory Committee
Affiliated Faculty
Postdoctoral Scholars

News & Events
News
From Chips to Agents: UChicago Watches NVIDIA’s Vision for the Next Era of AI
Inclusive Development International Expands “Follow the Money” Toolkit
Distinguished Speaker Series 2025-26

Insights
What If AI Scientists Could Talk to Each Other?
UChicago Researchers Build a Tool to Help Fix Peer Review
Could AI Help Us Be More Thoughtful Voters?

Events
Apr 14 AI+Science Hackathon
Apr 14 Ramon Nogueira (UChicago): Schmidt AI in Science Speaker Series
Apr 16 OpenAI Lunch & Learn: James Hairston, Global Head of Innovation Policy

Search Site
To search this site, enter a search term

Elevate Your Expertise in Data Science
The University of Chicago’s MS in Applied Data Science program equips you with in-demand expertise and an unparalleled network of global alumni. Take the next step and start your application today.

How to Apply

Programs
Choose from full- and part-time options in our In-Person and Online programs. Apply today!

In-Person Program
The In-Person program, ideal for early career professionals, now includes a 2-year full-time option starting Autumn 2026—alongside the existing 12–15 month track for full- and part-time students.

Learn More

Online Program
The same rigorous curriculum, faculty, and network as the in-person degree. Designed for working professionals with 2+ years of full-time experience.

Learn More

MBA/MS Program
Differentiate yourself with a competitive joint degree with UChicago's Booth School of Business. Apply through Booth's admissions process.

Learn More

Apply Today!
The application for entry is open! Prospective Online and In-Person students can apply by June 23, 2026, for full- and part-time study for Autumn 2026 entry. Start your application here.

How to Apply
You have questions; we have answers. Whether you are just beginning your search or are ready to apply, we are here to help you take the next step.

Industry Leading Faculty
UChicago’s Master’s in Applied Data Science program recruits industry leaders from across the country. Meet our instructors and learn how they are shaping the landscape of data science.

Data in Action - Capstone Projects
Whether you are early in your career or more advanced, you will benefit from our real-world Capstone Experience. You will have the opportunity to help top companies across multiple sectors to solve real business problems. Sample Capstone Projects.

How UChicago’s MS in Applied Data Science Prepares Future Innovators
Learn how the University of Chicago’s MS in Applied Data Science equips students with strong foundations in machine learning, real-world problem solving, and communication. Current students and alumni share how the curriculum prepares graduates to translate data into meaningful, real-world impact.

Start Your Application
The application to be considered for Autumn 2026 enrollment is now open! The final application deadline for full- and part-time entrance in Autumn 2026 is June 23, 2026.

The In-Person Program and the Online Program admit full- and part-time students for entrance in the autumn quarter.

FAQs

Related News, Insights, and Past Events
Applied Data Science Apr 13, 2026
For Better Sleep, One MS-ADS Student Turned to Artificial Intelligence

DSI News Apr 08, 2026
From Chips to Agents: UChicago Watches NVIDIA’s Vision for the Next Era of AI

Data & Software Apr 03, 2026
What If AI Scientists Could Talk to Each Other?

Data & Software Apr 02, 2026
UChicago Researchers Build a Tool to Help Fix Peer Review

Mar 31 Past Event Mar 31, 2026
Madeleine Torcasso (UChicago): Schmidt AI in Science Speaker Series

Applied Data Science Mar 23, 2026
Winter 2026 Capstone Showcase Highlights Innovative Data Science Projects

Mar 18 Past Event Mar 18, 2026
MS in Applied Data Science – Information Session (Online Program)

Blog Mar 17, 2026
Could AI Help Us Be More Thoughtful Voters?

Apr 1 Past Event Apr 01, 2026
Abel Kho (Northwestern University): Biomedical Data Science Colloquium

Campus News Mar 12, 2026
Michael Franklin Named Deputy Dean for Computational and Mathematical Sciences

DSI
Data Science Institute
5460 S University Ave
Chicago IL 60615
data-science@uchicago.edu

© 2026 University of Chicago

Footer Links
About
People
Research
Education
Outreach
News
Events
Jobs
Newsletter Archive
Physical Sciences Division
Nondiscrimination Statement
Accessibility
Contact

Get Updated
Newsletter Signup
Email

Follow
x.com
bsky.app
www.linkedin.com
www.youtube.com
github.com
instagram.com
www.tiktok.com
